# booking-system

Arts festivals are very popular in the UK, and a much beloved way to spend the long
summer days for audiences of any age. Edinburgh itself hosts 3 very famous festivals:
Fringe, the world’s largest arts festival, the Edinburgh International Festival, and the
Edinburgh Military Tattoo, as well as some smaller scale festivals. Last year, the COVID19 situation led to most of these festivals being cancelled. Things are improving this year
and festivals are being scheduled again, but Government restrictions mean that many of
their shows must be provided online, while for others the size of the audience must be
considerably reduced to respect social distancing. Moreover, queuing at a box office is
oftentimes replaced by the need to book events online.


1
Foreseeing the increased reliance on technology by festival organisers in the years
to come, your software development company is, amongst other things, developing an
online booking system for arts festival events. This system will be advertised and sold
to businesses which organise festivals. You are part of the team tasked to develop this
system, and you are required to work independently on part of it.
An event at the festival is the performance of a show at a certain venue and time.
Using this system, customers can browse information on all the events for a certain date
and then filter this information based on one or more of: the show’s genre (comedy, variety,
theatre, music, childrens’), how the show can be watched (online scheduled, or in person),
and suitability of the show (general audience, adults only). Assume the filtering action
is performed once all wanted filters are chosen. Events are presented using information
about the show they belong to: the same as in filters, plus title, description, performer,
duration, price; as well as the event’s time(s) on the selected date. We assume all the
events for a show have the same price, and there can only be one event for the show at
the same time. If customers identify an event of interest, they can book it if it has tickets
left. To this end, they must provide the required number of tickets (tickets are all of the
same type), their personal details (name, address, email address, phone number), and
their method of payment (debit or credit card). The system should complain in case the
customer required more tickets than left available. After correct provision of all required
information, the system forwards customers to an external payment system - which it
notifies of the value needed paid - where they can pay. On this system notifying ours of
a successful payment, customers are issued with a confirmation containing a booking
number. This booking number is automatically generated by the system to consist of the
concatenation, in order, of: the user’s initial (i.e. first letter of first name), first 5 letters of
their family name padded with ’*’s if the name is shorter, current date, a ’-’ sign, current
time (e.g. CAlexa2021-07-23-13:54:55.130719, LYu***2021-07-23-13:56:51.995877). If
the payment system instead notifies of unsuccessful payment, customers are notified and
will need to restart the booking. Bookings have a status of ’pending’ for the customers
ever since the start of the booking process and until they successfully pay, after which
it becomes ’active’. You can assume that customers will always ultimately pay, even if
initially the payment system declines their payment.
Within maximum 14 days of a booking being made, a booking can be cancelled either
directly by the customer by accessing it with the email address and booking number,
or by calling the box office who can do this on the customer’s behalf. This changes the
status of the booking from ’active’ to ’cancelled’. Refunds are not considered in this
version of the system, so you do not need to worry about them. Bookings cannot be
edited at any point.
The system can also be used by the festival organisers to record new venues (name,
address, capacity), performers (only by name, can be either represent an individual or a
group) and their shows. Moreover, organisers can schedule each event for the same show,
as follows:
• Always providing a date and time
• For in person shows, once the above information is provided the system can inform


2
them of available venues (i.e. which do not have other shows at the same time)
and their maximum number of attendees given by the formula capacity / 3, to
consider social distancing. The organiser can then choose a venue, which schedules
the event for that show and gives back a confirmation.
• For online shows, providing the date, time and duration leads directly to the system
scheduling the event for that show and giving back a confirmation. Online events
have a default maximum of 100 tickets.
• For both in person and online shows, several events but of different shows can be
scheduled at the same time.
Assume that the festival organisers have a way to log into the system, but do not
develop this in your solution. There are no registration and login functionalities available
for customers.
The system can also be used by the same festival organisers to organise several
festivals.
